US Open, formally known as the United States Open Tennis Championships, an international tennis tournament chronologically considered as the fourth and the final Grand Slam of the year.

The grand event follows the Australian Open , the French Open and the most prestigious Wimbledon every year. The tournament comes under the list of one of the oldest tennis tournaments and has been played since 1881 only with Men.The tournament was earlier known as the U.S. National Championship for Men. Presently the tournament is embodied with five primary categories - men's and women's singles, men's and women's doubles, and mixed doubles. It also features wheelchair, senior, and junior events.The US Open is the only Grand Slam competition that has been held perpetually since it commenced.

The 2024 US Open was the 144th edition of tennis' US Open and the fourth and final Grand Slam event of the year. It was held on outdoor hard courts at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in New York City. Novak Djokovic and Coco Gauff were the men's and women's singles defending champions, respectively, but Djokovic lost in the third round to Alexei Popyrin and Gauff lost in the fourth round to Emma Navarro. It began with the preliminary rounds from August 19 to 22, followed by the tournament itself from August 26 to September 8 of this year

Jannik Sinner defeated Taylor Fritz in the final, 6–3, 6–4, 7–5 to win the men's singles tennis title at the 2024 US Open.[1] It was his second major title. Sinner became the first Italian man to win the US Open singles title and the first Italian man in the Open Era to win multiple major titles. Sinner was also the fourth (and youngest) man to win both hardcourt majors (Australian Open and US Open) in the same year, after Mats Wilander, Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic, and the first man to win his first two major singles titles in the same year since Guillermo Vilas in 1977.

The 2024 US Open final was held on Sunday, sept 08, 2024.
